Prayer for the Flourishing of the Dzogchen Teachings of Sogyal Rinpoche, the incarnation of
Lerab Lingpa
by Domang Yangthang Rinpoche

emaho, khordé nyimé tokta dralwé long
Emaho! Beginningless and endless is the expanse that is free from the duality of samsara and
nirvana,
rangjung kadak nyam dal tiklé ché
Self-arising primordial purity, the all-pervading great sphere of reality—
khyechö sumden ö migyurwé ku
You are the body of unchanging clear light, endowed with three unique aspects,1
jadral kuntuzang la solwa deb
Samantabhadra, who transcends all activity, to you we pray!
dzogchen neluk tokpar jingyi lob
Inspire us with your blessings so that we realize the natural state of Dzogpachenpo!

yowa mé lé gakpa mepé dang
Within this unmoving space shines the unceasing radiance
lhündrub tenjung char nang malü kün
Of spontaneous presence, the arisings of interdependence.
shyi nang yinpar tokpé ké chik la
By realizing them all to be the appearances of the Ground, at that very instant
khyechö druk gi ngönpar sangyé pé
You attain perfect enlightenment, with its six special features.
tokmé kuntuzang la solwa deb
To you, the primordial buddha Samantabhadra, we pray!
dzogchen neluk tokpar jingyi lob
Inspire us with your blessings so that we realize the natural state of Dzogpachenpo!

gang tuk khyab dal namkha tabu lé
From your wisdom mind, all-pervading just like space,
künkhyab tukjé rolpa chiryang nang
Dawns the play of compassion, omnipresent, in forms of every kind,
zab dang gyachen chögo tayepa
Opening limitless doors to the Dharma, profound and vast,
gang la gang dul dzepa mejung ba
And performing the wondrous enlightened actions that tame each according to their needs.
rangjung dorjé nangwar solwa deb
To all these appearances of the self-arisen vajra, we pray!
dzogchen neluk tokpar jingyi lob
Inspire us with your blessings so that we realize the natural state of Dzogpachenpo!

trödral tuk la pogyur ma chi kyang
The enlightened mind transcends concepts and never knows transition or change,
dangwé tso la zakar jishyin du
Yet still, like stars and planets reflected on the limpid surface of a lake,
gongshyi nyimé chik la dumar nang
In the single vision of non-duality, there appear the countless forms
gyalwa rik nga rik sum gönpo sok
Of the buddhas of the five families, the three bodhisattva lords,
rangjung rangshar trulpé khor tsok la
And all the gatherings of naturally appearing, self-arising emanations.
solwa deb so dak gyü jingyi lob
To you we pray: transform our minds, our very being, with your grace!
dzogchen neluk tokpar jingyi lob
Inspire us with your blessings so that we realize the natural state of Dzogpachenpo!

garab dorjé jampal shenyen dang
Garab Dorjé and Mañjuśrīmitra,
shrising jnanasutra bimala
Śrī Siṃha, Jñānasūtra and Vimalamitra,
kadrin dadral tsokyé dorjé sok
Guru Tsokyé Dorjé, ‘the Lake-born Vajra,’ whose kindness is beyond compare,
gyü sum rigdzin lama malü dang
All you vidyādhara gurus in the three transmission lineages,
kyabné kündü tsawé lama la
And the very embodiment of all sources of refuge, our root lama,
solwa deb so dak gyü jingyi lob
To you we pray: transform our minds, our very being, with your grace!
dzogchen neluk tokpar jingyi lob
Inspire us with your blessings so that we realize the natural state of Dzogpachenpo!

tsöden dü kyi dren chok shakyé gyal
In this time of turmoil, you are our supreme guide, King of the Śākyas.
gang gi shyal sung drö lang mayalwar
Now that the warm breath of your teachings has still not evaporated,
drebü tenpa nepé dü zang dir
And the Vajrayāna teachings remain in this age of good fortune,
khen lob chö sum trulpé lo pen gyi
May the teachings of the Ancient Translation school,
drin lé lek tob ngagyur gyalwé ten
Passed down through the kindness of Śāntarakṣita, Padmasambhava, Trisong Detsen and the emanated
translators and scholars,
mi nub kha la nyishar jishyin du
Never wane, but like the sun high up in the sky,
chok dü küntu dar shying gyé gyur chik
May they shine and spread and flourish far and wide!

ngagyur tenpé nyingpo dzogpa ché
The very heart of the Ngagyur Nyingma teachings is the Dzogpachenpo,
der shek nyingpö neluk jishyinpa
The natural state of the sugatagarbha, just as it is,
ngönsum tönpé lam chok manorwa
Revealed directly through this supreme, unerring path,
tsokyé dorjé shyal lang tol lewa
Spoken spontaneously by the Lake-born Vajra, Guru Rinpoche.
ösal dorjé nyingpö shedrub dé
May the teachings and practice of this Clear Light Vajra Essence
chok dü tadru küntu bar gyur chik
Blaze up and spread to every land!

ngagyur tenpé gyü dzin leling gi
One who holds the lineage of these Ancient Translation teachings is the incarnation of Lerab
Lingpa,
shedrub tö sam gompé langtso chen
Whose manner of teaching and practice, of study, contemplation and meditation, is full of vigour
and energy.
dzin dzé la lob kün gyi tukgyü la
May the masters and disciples who maintain this very tradition
gyü sum lamé jinlab ngön shyuk né
Receive the actual blessings of the lamas of the three transmissions.
chö gyé di la shyenpa rang lok té
Then may our minds instinctively turn away from the eight worldly concerns,
nyamchung chok shé kha dön tsungpa yi
And, with humility, contentment and integrity,
dampa gongmé nam tar jé zin né
By emulating the lives of the great masters of the past,
dzogchen tenpé gatsal rabgyé shing
As the lovely orchard of the Dzogchen teachings bursts into bloom,
nyingpö drebu lönpar jingyi lob
May we be infused with their blessings, so that we can pick and enjoy its inmost fruit!

khyepar shying di tendzin kyechok gi
As for the supreme being Sogyal Rinpoche, who upholds the teachings here,
sönam mingyur riwo shyindu ten
May his merit (Sönam) remain forever stable as a mountain,
kutsé mingyur takten dorjé shyir
May his life remain forever firm within the vajra ground,
tsewang drubpa nam kyi jinlab né
And, blessed by those who have attained the power of longevity,
tenpé gyaltsen sitser dreng dzé ching
May he raise the victory banner (Gyaltsen) of the teachings to the very summit of existence,
tenpa yün né yündu gyé gyur chik
And may his teachings remain for ages to come, spreading forever further and further!

Just so as not to decline a request made by Patrick, a long-time worker at Lerab Ling, Sogyal
Rinpoche’s senior student and a translator of the meaning of the Dharma, this was written
in the delightful garden of Lerab Ling by the one who holds the name of Yangthang Tulku.
May it be virtuous!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2013.
↑ The three unique aspects referred to here are: 1) instructions (mengak) which did not derive
from scriptures (lung), 2) the result which did not come about based on any cause, and
3) buddhahood which did not arise from the ordinary mind (sem).